(Theater in Quarantine Intro Music)
Good evening. It is November 2nd, 8:07, and this is Theatre in Quarantine,
the digital performance lab that's been live streaming from this very East Village apartment
since 2020 when the theaters went dark. Since then, we've continued to experiment with the
limits of live digital performance, and we are grateful to NYU Skirball for bringing us back
to present another Halloween production.
Now this one is being live-streamed on CultureHub's Broadcaster Platform.
which has been recently developed to create as live an experience as possible for you, our remote audience.
In the bottom left-hand corner of your screen you'll find a small arrow
that takes you to a menu of different interactive settings.
There you'll find access to the chat, to reaction emojis,
and if you prefer a more focused viewing, the option to turn off all the above.
In the bottom right-hand corner of your screen, you'll notice a small backstage camera view,
which you can click anytime to toggle between streams.
Now one side gives you the curated performance feed,
the version that we've rehearsed, designed, composed, and are carefully stitching together for you, live, tonight.
The other side shows a behind the scenes camera, a static wide-shot of this apartment,
where you'll catch all the real-time chaos that makes the illusion possible.
You can move between the performance and backstage at your leisure.
In other words, just like the phantom,
you choose between the artifice of the opera
and the reality of the infrastructure.
Now, get ready with me as I become the Phantom.
Many people have asked me
why we're doing another Phantom of the Opera.
Hasn't been done? and done and done,
done silently, done musically, done immersively?
What could possibly be left to say about a monstrous man living beneath an opera house —
this enormous crumbling monument to high art,
a national museum really, a mausoleum
for a faithful few's occasional pilgrimage.
I mean, there used to be opera houses everywhere.
Entire industries built around singers, designers, and artisans.
Now, most countries, there's maybe one national company left.
A single luxury house propped up by subsidies and nostalgia.
Because, maybe the Phantom isn't just a man hiding under a mask.
Maybe he's the infrastructure itself.
Which is why in wrestling with the question of the Phantom's face,
we think of it not as disfigurement, but as damage.
the visible strain of keeping a collapsing system alive.
The cracks are architectural.
The rot, institutional.
Budgets shrink.
Maybe someone should blow it all up.
It cannot and will not be a truly popular art form again.
So what do we do?
What do we do with the once popular?
We entomb it in marble.
bury it in the basement, call it preservation.
We write dramaturgical notes.
We flood it with luxury formaldehyde.
We advertise this pale, taxidermied imitation.
Have you ever seen the one about the impresario
who drags an opera house up a mountain in the Amazon?
It's an old showboat with a paddle wheel.
It's very Sisyphean, very imperialist.
Where's new music that doesn't take a higher degree to appreciate?
All these works are in the public domain.
Why are we beholden to their staccato marking?
And who cares?
Apparently the subscribers — dogmatic extremists —
How can you possibly introduce  conventions so antiquated to a new audience?
Music appreciation class?
It'll happen to theater like it happened to the opera,
like it'll happen to the cinema.
Anywhere real people congregate in real space, in real time.
Did you know that when they built the opera house,
they cleared an entire neighborhood,
evicted, relocated for the sensory pleasure of the wealthy and the powerful.
There were rumors two of the bricklayers were crushed to death when they laid the foundation.
A real community, torn up from the roots
so that imaginary worlds could ascend and descend in mere seconds...
...like magic.
They did a Moby Dick last season.
Ahab, screeching in a bemused tenor upon a trumped up peg leg chasing the old white whale,
thinking he's the one doing the hunting.
Oh, captain, my captain, who will tell you it is you who are being hunted?
(Overture begins)
(A soprano vocalizing)
(Metronomes ticking)
(Soprano vocalizations)
(Vocalizations end)
(Phone ringing)
Are you there?
A Voice: "Yes."
He doesn't deserve this.
"You did what you had to do. You must absolve yourself of these material things."
"For tonight, you will make the angels in heaven weep."
Thank you, angel of music.
(Orchestra tuning)
(Applause)
(Tap of  Conductor's baton)
(Orchestra begins playing)
(Singing in French)
(Male baritone singing in French)
(Applause)
(Rehearsal piano plays)
(Telephone ringing)
(Violinist tuning)
(Distorted operatic music)
(A sharp electrical pulse halts the music)
(Music resumes)
(Another electrical short)
(Music and singing resumes again)
(An even more violent electrical surge)
(Tinkling, clinking chandelier crystals  )
Was that you?
The Voice: "It was a faulty cable."
"Management should have taken care of it years ago."
"I'm sure the official report will say negligence."
I didn't want this.
"There's no need to go out there."
But it's Raul.
"Come to the mirror instead."
"Close your eyes."
"Take one step forward... and open them."
(Door slams)
(Splash of water)
Think not on the mask.
Listen to my voice. You recognize me.
You know me.
Angel of music...
Are you not comfortable?
Where am I?
Five cellars underground.
Are we still in the opera house?
Below the orchestra and the dressing rooms.
Below the trap room and that old cistern that used to run hydraulics.
Somewhere even lower.
I have lived in these cellars for many years.
A nameless legend.
You are the Phantom.
I am many things.
I am your teacher.
I am your patron.
I am your angel of music.
You have no need to be afraid.
Not of me.
I want to go.
You are not a prisoner.
You are my masterpiece.
(Organ music)
(Singing in French)
Now when I sing, I hardly recognize myself.
How long must I stay here?
Until you are no longer afraid of me.
I have given you everything you have ever desired.
What more do you want?
Is Marguerite not enough?
What then?
Tosca, Violetta, Mimi, Lucia?
I want fame.
Why?
I want to be perfect.
You are perfect.
I'm beautiful.
You are beautiful.
But I want to be loved.
You are loved.
I want to be... it's a word I don't know how to translate it.
"Incontournable."
It's more than love.
I want to be part of the firmament, incontrovertible.
I suppose I sing in order to exist.
To belong to everyone and no one.
You belong to me.
So let me see your face.
Do not touch the mask!
This is not a request.
This is a warning.
It is the only rule.
Can you bear to love me
with this one small inconvenience?
(Metronome ticking)
Christine's voice: My father was the finest violinist in the world.
He claimed that all great musicians, once in their lives,
receive a visit from the angel of music.
And you will hear him too, my child.
When I am in heaven, I will send him to you.
When you first spoke to me, I thought I was going mad.
I thought you came from heaven.
(Organ music)
"Don Juan Triumphant." I don't know it.
I compose sometimes.
I have been working on this piece for some time.
I was once afraid that I would never finish it.
Now, I am afraid what will happen when I do.
You will never hear it.
My Don Juan is so horrifying...
...it consumes all those who come near it.
Come, Christine.
Let us sing Mozart instead.
(Singing "Don Giovanni")
How do you like it?!
I'm handsome, aren't I?!
Like your lover, aren't I?!
I thought that if you believed me to be beautiful...
that I might know...
I was going to give you everything you ever wanted.
All you had to do was not touch the mask!
I will show you the depth of my love.
I will let you go...
...back up and sing.
So long as you never see your lover again.
If you do, it is death to you both.
For the past three months,
the angel of music has been coming to my dressing room
to give me lessons.
That voice you heard, remember?
It was no angel, Raoul.
It was the Phantom.
He's no ghost and I've seen him.
I figured if I was talking to you,
he'd take me back to that lake underground.
It doesn't make sense when I try to remember.
I was so drawn to him, to his voice.
But it was his face I wanted to see.
You thought that you could leave the opera,
that you could run away from me,
The one who made you great.
Sounds like the gala performance is starting
without its new prima donna.
You see how disposable you are.
All of you are so easily replaced.
The artists, the patrons,
Even the donors will all die out and be replaced by a younger generation...
But not me.
I am the opera.
I am the institution.
And I could never forget you.
Not if I lived a thousand years.
If you could love me, Christine, we would become one.
And you would become...
part of the opera forever.
Incontrovertible.
Part of the firmament.
If you'd have me, Christine, I would write you the grandest operas to sing.
Not just Faust.
Not just Aida.
Aida, Aida.
Aida must have her Radames — sealed in a tomb, singing their last breath.
That's the choice she made.
To live a princess, or die buried underground.
And now you too have a choice to make, Christine.
The wedding mass or the requiem mass?
If you choose the wedding mass, we shall be married.
And I will do anything to ensure my wife
gets everything she ever wanted.
If you choose the requiem mass, then boom,
you, me, your lover, the opera house.
blown to a million bits.
Over the years I've buried enough explosives down here
to blow up a quarter of the city.
I had thought to play my requiem many times
before you, Christine.
Sitting in this damp shadow of a life.
I'd been planning to take all of those
jewel bedecked shoulders to the grave with me for a long time.
And then I heard your voice.
And for the first time in my life I felt hope.
Hope that I might be loved.
That I might create something beautiful to leave behind.
Hope that opera could matter again.
Do you think you could love me, Christine?
I know that together we could make you immortal.
But without you, without your voice, I may as well take it all down with me.
But you must make a choice.
Unless I stop it, the explosives are set to blow
on the final note of tonight's opening act.
I fear you have but moments to choose.
Wedding mass or requiem mass?
Immortality or obsolescence?
Do you wish to one day leave behind a legacy of greatness...
...or to be burnt to ashes, carried off by the wind, and forgotten by the hands of time.
(Opera music)
(Applause)